\section{SUMMARY: Experiment 1}

In this study, we used a real group vs. nominal group approach to gaining
insight into the contributions and importance of meetings in software
review. Real groups reflect a meeting-based approach to defect discovery,
closely similar to Fagan Inspection. Nominal groups reflect an
individual-based approach to defect discovery, closely similar to review
methods such as those studied by Votta et. al~in which defect discovery is
an objective of the individual preparation phase.

Our goal was to provide additional insight into the question of whether
meetings provide an essential contribution to the review meeting process,
as Fagan asserts, or whether meetings are simply costly without
corresponding benefits, as Votta and his colleagues assert.  Interestingly,
our data appears to provide partial support for both of these assertions.

\subsection{Support for non-meeting-based review}

We were unable to find any significant differences between meeting-based
groups and individuals in the number of valid errors discovered\footnote{It
  is important to recognize that this does not mean that we found the two
  techniques to be equally effective. There may be significant differences
  that we unable to detect simply due to the design or conduct of the
  experiment.}. However, we did find a significant difference in the cost of
review: meeting-based review required more total effort and more effort per
defect.

Furthermore, the data suggests that changes to the review method could
potentially lead to individuals significantly outperforming groups in
defect discovery.  This is because the nominal groups in this study did
generate significantly more {\em issues} than the real groups, but their overall
defect discovery was reduced by the presence of duplicates.  In research by
Adam Porter and colleagues \cite{Porter95}, they hypothesized that
``systematic'' defect discovery techniques, such as their scenario-based
technique would outperform ``ad-hoc'' techniques (such as paraphrasing) in
part because of ``reduced reviewer overlap'' (duplication of defects). In
their experiments, systematic defect discovery techniques did indeed
significantly outperform ad-hoc techniques.  Therefore, it is plausible
that individual reviewers could employ a systematic defect discovery
technique that reduces defect duplication to the point where individuals
would both outperform groups and have lower overall cost. 

In summary, the fact that we were able to observe significantly more cost for
meeting-based review, that we were unable to observe significantly more
defects discovered by meeting-based review, and that related research
suggests a mechanism for improving non-meeting-based review effectiveness
all support the assertions of Votta and his colleagues.

\subsection{Support for meeting-based review}

Our data does not unequivocably support a non-meeting-based review style,
however. Real groups using meetings generated significantly less
false positives (issues that were not valid defects) than individuals
in nominal groups. Meetings were more effective than individuals at
filtering issues. 

Real groups also displayed a substantial degree of synergy: over 40\% 
of the issues detected by ICS-313 groups were a product of some level
of synergy, and almost 30\% of the issues overall resulted from synergy. 

Most subjects indicated a personal preference for the
meeting-based review method. Most felt more confident in the quality of
meeting-based review, and more satisfied with it as a review process.
Indeed, almost three quarters of the subjects believed that meeting-based
review was more productive than individual review, even though the primary
review measures suggest the opposite!

Why did the subjects feel more confident in meeting-based review, and even
believe it to be more productive?  In the meeting-based review sessions,
reviewers ended the session with an awareness of all the defects found by
the group.  In the nominal groups, they left the session knowing only about
their own (potential) defects. (The average group found about 50\% more
defects during a session than the average individual.)  Furthermore, in
meeting-based review, all of the potential defects raised were subject to
immediate verification by other members present, providing everyone with
some confidence that the defects raised were valid. In the nominal groups,
no such external validation took place.  Finally, subjects felt the
presence of synergy during meeting-based review: they clearly discovered
defects through interaction with each other, even though this did not lead
to a measurable difference in defects found between the two review methods.

Thus, meetings appear to serve an important function, but that function is
not necessarily to increase the total number of defects discovered.
Rather, the meeting serves as a mechanism to share the state of the review
with all the participants, to enable them to evaluate its effectiveness,
and to foster a sense of collective ownership and responsibility for its
outcome.

