Welcome to the README file for the Sustainable Energy Pathways proposal.

This proposal is written using LaTeX.  I advise installing TeX Live (http://www.tug.org/texlive/) which will simplify the creation of the formatted document. 

Here are the files associated with this proposal:

Makefile
Makefile.ini
  -- For those on Unix systems, these two files simplify running LaTeX, BibTex, and the creation of the PDF file.  Edit the .ini file to indicate the top-level document, then simply type "make" to create it.  Another useful command is "make clean", which gets rid of the intermediate files.

bio.tex
bio.fripp.tex
bio.johnson.tex
bio.kavcic.tex
bio.kuh.tex
  -- The two page biography files. I have created templates for everyone based upon an (outdated) version of mine.  Please edit your associated file with the correct contents.   You can generate the bio section document in PDF format by running LaTeX on the top-level bio.tex file.

budget.tex
  -- The budget narrative section of the proposal.  Run LaTeX on it to create the PDF.

data-management-plan.tex
  -- The two page, standalone supplemental document describing the data management plant. Run LaTeX on it to create the PDF.

facilities.tex
  -- The facilities section of the proposal.  Run LaTeX on it to create the PDF.

project.tex
project.intro.tex
project.control.tex
project.modeling.tex
project.sensing.tex
project.social.tex
project.workforce.tex
project.priornsf.tex
project.plan.tex
project.conclusions.tex
  -- The project description component of the proposal.  The project.tex file is the top-level file which generates the whole document.  The other files provide individual sections.  The document is split up in this way so that individuals can work on various sections independently.

summary.tex
  -- The summary of the proposal.  Run LaTeX on it to create the PDF.

supplemental.tex
  -- The supplemental section of the proposal.  Run LaTeX on it to create the PDF.

proposalnsf.cls
  -- The LaTeX style file used to generate the proposal in NSF format.

bib/
  -- A subdirectory containing the .bib files used for bibliographic references.   Please add new .bib files to this subdirectory to include your references. 

pdf/
  -- A subdirectory containing a snapshot of the pdf files generated for the various parts of this proposal.  Philip will regenerated these snapshots periodically.



